# PiFormulae
A collection of "How-To" guides and recipes for the Raspberry Pi. The entries in this table are for the pages that have any potentially useful information. That's a low bar, but feel free to peruse any of the pages in the repo as well. More importantly, feel free to contribute... [fork-n-go if you like :)](http://jlord.us/forkngo/). If you find an error in any of these "recipes", or you've got an idea to improve it, please fork this repository to your GitHub account. Once it's in your account, submit a "Pull Request" for the corrections or improvements you'd like to see. [Tom Hombergs has created a very good tutorial on how to do this](https://reflectoring.io/github-fork-and-pull/)

Repo Files | Description
-------- | -------- 
[First steps...](ReadMeFirst.md) | An approach to setting up a Raspberry Pi in "headless" mode, from setting up your microSD card to your first login over SSH, and then on to `raspi-config` to complete your initial setup.
[Find the IP address of a Raspberry Pi](FindMyPi.md) | This is potentially useful for those running their Pi in "headless mode". You can use this to find the IP address of your Pi, and having the address, initiate the necessary SSH connection to communicate with it.
[Mount an external drive](ExternalDrives.md) | This recipe will walk through the steps needed to mount an external drive on a Raspberry Pi, and explain in some detail what the commands do, and why they are necessary.
[Share Files on RPi over the network](FileShare.md) | This recipe continues the [External Drives](ExternalDrives.md) recipe to share files and folders over your network.
[PiCameraAntics](PiCameraAntics.md) | The Pi Camera is a popular accessory, but it does have some "quirks". This is a work in progress; some of the examples may be potentially useful to someone who's just getting started.  
[How to do Python development on your Pi from your Mac](XQuartzInstall.md) | For Python coders: I use [XQuartz](https://www.xquartz.org/) as the X11 app on my Mac to run [IDLE](https://docs.python.org/3/library/idle.html) on my Raspberry Pi in headless mode. This is an easy-to-follow guide to setting that up. 
[My recipe for installing and updating software](PackageMaintenance.md) | Everybody seems to have a different idea about how to install and update apps on their Raspberry Pi. This is an area that I am still researching, but this is how I do it now. 
[Software Defined Radio applications for the Raspberry Pi](https://github.com/seamusdemora/PiFormulae/blob/master/SwDefRadio.md) | This isn't even a skeleton yet, and there's very little if anything of any use now (except a nice picture of the gorgeous Hedy Lamarr). I've got some interest in this area, and will update going forward. In fact, I think it's the most fascinating area of development in the _Raspiverse_ (ha ha, sorry, couldn't resist that, but honestly, it is fascinating)
